Inactive branches (#342)
xataio/mdx-docs: 100-Appendix/035-inactivity.mdx

navTitle: Branch inactivity
keywords: ['branch', 'search']
description: Branches are set to inactive after a period of time if not in use.
slug: inactive-branches
published: true
---

If no traffic is detected for a branch for a full 30-day period, either through the REST API or direct [Postgres access](/docs/postgres), Xata will flag the branch as inactive and disable features.
Once set to inactive, the search engine will be disabled. This includes [full-text search](/docs/sdk/search), [aggregations](/docs/sdk/aggregate), [vector search](/docs/sdk/vector-search), and [Ask AI](/docs/sdk/ask).
This only effects search. All other portions of the REST API, [file attachments](/docs/sdk/file-attachments) and direct [Postgres access](/docs/postgres) will remain available.
To re-enable the search engine, navigate to the database settings section in the corresponding workspace and turn the search engine on for the desired branch.

Features will only be disabled on inactive branches in workspaces on our [Free plan](/docs/concepts/pricing#free-plan).
Branches set to inactive will still count towards the [limits](/pricing) imposed by the [Free plan](/docs/concepts/pricing#free-plan).

> Xata sends a notification by email ten days before setting a branch to inactive. If the branch continues to not be used, Xata will mark it as inactive and you'll receive another email notification.

Reviewer: Can we use "a few days before" instead of ten? Because I'll give people a shorter heads-up this time.

Author: adjusted with https://github.com/xataio/mdx-docs/pull/342/commits/b179c7b91798a1bc6e5f1d56601395db9a948f8c -- thanks

> Xata sends a notification by email ten days before setting a branch to inactive. If the branch continues to not be used, Xata will mark it as inactive and you'll receive another email notification.

Author: ```suggestion
Xata sends a notification by email a few days before setting a branch to inactive. If the branch continues to not be used, Xata will mark it as inactive and you'll receive another email notification.
```

---

> title: Branch Inactivity

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Branch inactivity
```

> navTitle: Branch Inactivity

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
navTitle: Branch inactivity
```

keywords: ['branch', 'search']

> description: Actions take after branch inactivity

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Branches are set to inactive after a period of time if not in use.
```

slug: inactive-branches
published: true
---

> If no traffic is detected for a branch over a 30-day period, either through the REST API or direct [Postgres access](/docs/postgres), Xata will flag the branch as inactive and take appropriate action.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If no traffic is detected for a branch for a full 30-day period, either through the REST API or direct [Postgres access](/docs/postgres), Xata will flag the branch as inactive and disable features.
```

> As a result, all search-related operations will be turned off, including [full-text search](/docs/sdk/search), [aggregations](/docs/sdk/aggregate), [vector search](/docs/sdk/vector-search), and [Ask AI](/docs/sdk/ask).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once set to inactive, the search engine will be disabled. This includes [full-text search](/docs/sdk/search), [aggregations](/docs/sdk/aggregate), [vector search](/docs/sdk/vector-search), and [Ask AI](/docs/sdk/ask).
```

> However, other features from the REST API, [file attachments](/docs/sdk/file-attachments) and direct [Postgres access](/docs/postgres) will remain available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This only effects search. All other portions of the REST API, [file attachments](/docs/sdk/file-attachments) and direct [Postgres access](/docs/postgres) will remain available.
```

> To re-enable the search engine, navigate to the branch management section in the corresponding workspace and turn the search engine on for the desired branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To re-enable the search engine, navigate to the database settings section in the corresponding workspace and turn the search engine on for the desired branch.
```

Settings live at the db level, they just show at any branch route.

> This action only applies to workspaces on the [Free plan](/docs/concepts/pricing#free-plan).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Features will only be disabled on inactive branches in workspaces on our [Free plan](/docs/concepts/pricing#free-plan).
```

> To avoid this action, please upgrade the workspace to a [Pro plan](/docs/concepts/pricing#pro-plan).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This this is an an obvious statement that can be removed for clarity.

> Inactive branches will still count towards the [limits](/pricing) imposed by the [Free plan](/docs/concepts/pricing#free-plan).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Branches set to inactive will still count towards the [limits](/pricing) imposed by the [Free plan](/docs/concepts/pricing#free-plan).
```

> Xata will send you a notification via email ten days before taking any action, if no activity continues for a 30 days window in total, Xata will take action on the branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Xata sends a notification by email ten days before setting a branch to inactive. If the branch continues to not be used, Xata will mark it as inactive and you'll receive another email notification.
```

> Afterwards, you'll receive another email once the branch has been marked as inactive, after the 30-day period.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Combined with above sentence
